hello this is chef john from food wishes
calm with Trader Joe's meatloaf you can
read about it in the post why it's
called Trader Joe's if you don't know
what Trader Joe's are but I'm going to
make this meatloaf using ingredients
pretty much exclusively from Trader
Joe's and the first one is this
container of mirepoix it's 14 and a half
ounces that's about I don't know three
cups or so it's celery carrots onions
mirepoix is French for well actually
still French for mirepoix
but mirepoix is the term for that celery
carrot onion mixture and I know what
you're thinking chef John wouldn't have
been cheaper to cut that yourself no
because they make you buy the giant
bunch of celery in the store and you
only need like two ribs II throw the
rest away so this is actually for most
of you cheaper to do so we're going to
cook this whole container with a big
pinch of salt with some unsalted Trader
Joe's butter for about ten minutes
covered stir it once in a while until
it's nice and soft and tender we're
going to divide it in half because this
half is going to be for the meatloaf and
that half for the gravy all right so put
half of it in a big mixing bowl and then
we're going to cool it down with some
double roasted salsa Trader Joe's double
roasted salsa
anybody can roast salsa once Trader
Joe's roasted twice
alright 1/2 a cup of Trader Joe's
organic milk a dash of Worcestershire
sauce and Trader Joe's cage-free eggs
you see any cages there's no cages you
find a cage in that carton the next
dozen half off alright throw one of
those eggs in we're going to stir that
in I'm going to add some pepper lots of
it some cayenne and a good amount of
salt you don't want bland meatloaf to
you I stir that in then we're going to
add our beef I'm using Trader Joe's
butcher shop Black Angus
don't settle for regular Angus you want
Black Angus this is 85% lean very nice
beef I get a couple pounds I'm going to
mix that in lightly and I'm going to add
my dry ingredients which are some dry
thyme and organic breadcrumbs that's
right Trader Joe's organic breadcrumbs I
hate pesticides in my breadcrumbs
so I'm gonna use these so I'm gonna put
three quarters of a cup in there I'm
going to finish the mixing you know the
trick meatloaf just mix it till it comes
together don't over mix it it'll get
tough I'm going to put some oil down on
a piece of
on my baking sheet and I'm going to form
that into a loaf and it's the name of
meat about six inches across by about
three four inches high right make sure
it's nice and smooth I find wetting your
fingers works wonders then for the
topping I'm going to take some brown
sugar that's right from Trader Joe's and
mix it in with a couple tablespoons of
our double roasted salsa I'm going to
paint that over the top and a little bit
on the sides and that's going to go in a
325 degree oven for about an hour and
ten minutes I like a slow oven I'll show
you why later in the meantime we're
going to take the other half of the
vegetables with another hunk of butter
and some flour and we're going to make a
quick little roux you know how to do
that right we do that all the time we're
going to toast that butter and flour
together with the vegetables for about
five minutes I'm going to take some
Trader Joe's organic beef broth really
nice all natural and we are going to put
in a cup turn the heat up to high and as
soon as that starts to thicken and all
the brown bits and deliciousness of the
vegetables have released from the bottom
we can add our other two cups of stock
so I'm going to do three cups total I'm
going to season that with some pepper
and salt a little shot of Worcestershire
all right so when it comes to boil we're
going to back that down to low and just
simmer that for about thirty minutes
until it looks like that that is one
delicious looking and tasting gravy
all right the meatloaf is done how do I
know because it's 1:55 exactly that is
the optimum temperature for me love you
see the bottom of that pan you see a big
pool of juice and grease no you see just
a little bit that's because all the
moisture stays in the meatloaf that also
is why we cooked it at a low temperature
slice it top it with your gravy served
with the traditional mashed potatoes and
peas that is one delicious meatloaf
recipe now you can make that with any
ingredients you want of course if you do
live near Trader Joe's makes the
shopping list easy I really like their
stuff really cheap by the way nicely
packaged and a lot of organic stuff a
lot of all-natural and by the way there
pay me yeah I'll have all the
ingredients on the site and as always
enjoy